Add 'Picking the right SDK for your Teams agent' guidance page (#2820)
microsoft/teams-sdk: teams.md/docs/main/teams/choosing-an-sdk.md

---
sidebar_class_name: 'sidebar-hidden'
summary: Pick the right SDK for your Teams agent. Compares the Microsoft 365 Agents SDK and the Microsoft Teams SDK by Teams depth, channel reach, and migration story.
---

> # Picking the right SDK for your Teams agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Pick the right SDK for your Teams agent
```

If the goal is to help the reader complete the task of choosing (as opposed to just discussing concepts), use the base verb, not the -ing version.

Author: Applied. H1 is now 'Pick the right SDK for your Teams agent'.

Microsoft offers two supported, actively-developed SDKs that can build a bot or agent for Microsoft Teams:

> - **[Microsoft 365 Agents SDK](https://github.com/Microsoft/Agents)**: a multi-channel agent runtime

Reviewer 2: the first bullet should be the Teams SDK

Author: Done. Reordered so the Microsoft Teams SDK bullet comes first.

> - **[Microsoft 365 Agents SDK](https://github.com/Microsoft/Agents)**: a multi-channel agent runtime

Reviewer: "Channel" is likely an unknown term to a reader here; same for "Activity Protocol" later.

Also re: Activity Protocol - if both options "speak Activity Protocol,", it's not clear why Agents SDK doesn't have deeper support for Teams, and why Teams SDK isn't compatible with other channels.

Author: Added inline definitions on first use. Channel is grounded by example in the M365 Agents SDK bullet ('reaches Teams, M365 Copilot, Microsoft Copilot Studio, WebChat, and other surfaces'). Activity Protocol gets a short gloss in the next paragraph ('the JSON wire format for bot/agent activities such as messages and events').

> - **Microsoft Teams SDK**: the SDK these docs cover, a Teams-first application framework

Reviewer 2: Missing link? (for parity with the previous bullet)

Author: Done. Added the GitHub repo link to the Teams SDK bullet for parity with the M365 Agents SDK bullet.

> Both ship for **C#, TypeScript, and Python**. Both speak the Activity Protocol, both interoperate with Microsoft Entra, both support agentic identity via Agent365 (shipped in the M365 Agents SDK; coming soon to Teams SDK), and both reach Microsoft 365 Copilot. Microsoft positions both as first-class. Work done in either is portable in shape, and you are not locked into one path.

Reviewer 2: I like the paragraph, but it's a bit dense. The interesting part is "portable in shape", sounds like too vague and might require some explanation later in the doc.

Author: Good catch. Replaced the vague phrase with a concrete pointer to the Bot Framework migration section, which spells out what switching between SDKs entails.

> This page helps you pick the SDK whose **defaults** match the bot or agent you're building. The criteria are about *fit*, not gates: the two SDKs are converging on most capabilities, so we focus on durable differences.

Reviewer 2: nit: This page -> This doc?

Author: Done.

## How they relate

> The two SDKs target different backends (**Teams Bot Service** for the Microsoft Teams SDK, **Azure Bot Service** for the M365 Agents SDK), but speak the same **Activity Protocol** to reach them.

Reviewer: - Consider putting the guidance before this section
- This is the first occurrence anywhere, including this site, Learn etc., that I've seen of `Teams bot service`. What is this referring to?

Author: Both addressed. The guidance section ('Which SDK for your Teams scenario') now precedes 'How they relate' so readers see the chooser before the architecture context. 'Teams Bot Service' is now defined inline as 'the Teams-native runtime that handles bot traffic for Microsoft Teams and the M365 Copilot client surface directly,' contrasted with Azure Bot Service (the broader Bot Framework infrastructure).

```mermaid
flowchart TB
    Code([Your bot / agent code])
    A["**M365 Agents SDK**<br/>AgentApplication<br/>(Microsoft.Agents.Builder)"]

>     T["**Microsoft Teams SDK**<br/>TeamsBotApplication<br/>(Microsoft.Teams.Apps)"]

Author: Fixed. Removed the language-specific class names and package paths from both diagram nodes. The boxes now just say 'Microsoft Teams SDK' and 'M365 Agents SDK' (language-neutral).

    ABS["Azure Bot Service"]
    TBS["Teams Bot Service"]

    MTeams(["&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Microsoft Teams&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"])
    M365C(["Microsoft 365 Copilot&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"])
    MCS([Microsoft Copilot Studio])
    WCD(["&nbsp;&nbsp;WebChat / DirectLine&nbsp;"])
    TWD(["Twilio, WhatsApp, etc."])

    Code --> T
    Code --> A
    T -- "Activity Protocol" --> TBS
    A -- "Activity Protocol" --> ABS

>     TBS --> MTeams

Reviewer: The unidirectional arrows are a bit confusing, considering that a traditional conversational turn begins with the user.

Author: Switched the runtime-flow arrows (SDK to backend, backend to channels) to bidirectional. Code-to-SDK arrows kept unidirectional since those represent code dependency rather than runtime traffic. Added a sentence below the diagram explaining message flow goes both ways: 'a user's turn rises from the channel up through the backend and SDK to your code, and your reply travels back down the same path.'

    TBS --> M365C

    ABS --> MTeams
    ABS --> M365C
    ABS --> MCS
    ABS --> WCD
    ABS --> TWD

    classDef both fill:#5B5FC7,color:#fff,stroke:none
    classDef agentsOptimized fill:#E8AB14,color:#000,stroke:none
    class MTeams,M365C both
    class MCS,WCD,TWD agentsOptimized
```

The channels then split into two groups:

> - **Purple** (Microsoft Teams, Microsoft 365 Copilot): reachable from both SDKs. Basic features are at parity; for the premier Teams experience, use the Teams SDK.

Reviewer: Be careful relying on color; not accessible

Author: Fixed. Both groups in the diagram now have visible borders: agents-optimized uses a dashed stroke, both-backends uses solid. Prose updated to drop 'Purple' and 'Amber' labels in favor of naming channels directly and referencing the border style ('solid borders in the diagram' / 'dashed borders in the diagram').

- **Amber** (Microsoft Copilot Studio, WebChat / DirectLine, …): reachable from either SDK in principle, but the M365 Agents SDK is the recommended, optimized path.

## Which SDK for your Teams scenario

How Teams-deep does your bot need to go? Two paths:

- **Basic** is **breadth-focused**: Activity Protocol primitives that work uniformly across Teams, M365 Copilot, Copilot Studio, WebChat, and other channels. Best fit: the **M365 Agents SDK**.

> - **Premier** is **depth-focused**: Teams-specific surfaces (mentions, message extensions, dialogs, tabs, meeting events, AI affordances, …) with dedicated handlers, schema types, and ergonomics. Best fit: the **Microsoft Teams SDK**.

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest to focus on "collaboration features", such as how make the bot or agent participate in a group conversation where they might need Targeted Messages, Reaction Support, TeamsChannels specific events, QuotedReplies and more.. 
-message extensions (not every one knows what is this for, and not an area where we are investing, maybe at the end of the list)
-dialogs (confusing name with BF dialogs, those are TaskModules, basically show a form in a pop up, move to the end)
-tabs (out of the scope of this document, this is related to teams-js.. )
-meeting events (I would say just meetings experiences)
-AI affordances (not recognized name, instead I would call out the specific feature, like citations, suggestions, quotes etc.. 

dedicated handlers (this is an impl. detail)

Reviewer: Very much agree, the specifics *are* the main decision criteria.

Not sure how I feel about _basic_ and _premier_, they sound like payment tiers.

Author: Restructured the Premier table around collaboration in group conversations. Lead rows are now @Mentions, Reactions, Targeted Messages, Quoted Replies, Threaded Replies, Channel Events, Meetings Experiences. Renames: 'Task modules / dialogs' is now just 'Task modules' with the form-in-a-popup clarification. Broke the umbrella 'AI affordances' row into specific features (Citations, Generated by AI label, Feedback Loop). Removed Tabs (out of scope, teams-js territory). Demoted Message Extensions to the bottom. Dropped 'dedicated handlers' from the section blurb.

Author: Renamed. 'Basic' and 'Premier' are now 'Cross-channel essentials' and 'Teams-native collaboration' across all six locations they appeared (intro bullets, H3 headings, supporting prose, rule-of-thumb line, and the bullet under the diagram). The new names describe the actual axis without the payment-tier connotation.

> ![M365 Agents SDK on Teams (breadth) vs Microsoft Teams SDK (depth)](/img/sdk-feature-comparison.png)

Reviewer 2: ❤️

Author: Thanks!

> ![M365 Agents SDK on Teams (breadth) vs Microsoft Teams SDK (depth)](/img/sdk-feature-comparison.png)

Reviewer: This should be text first; same concerns about accessibility. Also check this image in dark mode.

Author: Fair point. Leaving this as a follow-up since it requires image-asset work (richer alt text plus a dark-mode variant). Will tackle in a separate commit.

### Basic experience: what you get with the M365 Agents SDK on Teams

The basic experience: Activity Protocol primitives that work uniformly across channels.

| Feature | Description |
|---|---|
| Text messages | Receive and reply |
| Typing indicators | Acknowledge a message is being processed |
| Streaming responses | Chunked output, useful for long or AI-generated messages |
| Conversation update events | Members added / removed |
| OAuth sign-in flow | Standard user authentication |
| Proactive messaging | Send unsolicited messages to a saved conversation |
| Adaptive Cards (basic) | Send cards and handle simple action callbacks |

> ### Premier experience: what you get with the Microsoft Teams SDK on Teams

Reviewer: Beyond the features enabled, is there anything worth comparing/contrasting about the shape/ergonomics of the SDK itself?

Author: Open question, leaving for now to keep this iteration scoped to the existing structure. If an ergonomics comparison feels missing once everything else lands, happy to add a section in a follow-up.

Everything in the basic experience above, **plus** the premier Teams surface: dedicated handlers, schema types, and ergonomics for Teams-specific features.

| Feature | Description / API |
|---|---|
| @Mentions | `MessageActivity.addMention(...)`; `mention` activity route |
| Slash commands | Manifest-registered command lists invoked from the Teams compose box |
| Reactions | Add / remove emoji reactions on messages |
| Targeted (ephemeral) messages *(preview)* | `withRecipient(...)` to deliver to a specific user in a shared conversation |

> | Quoted replies | Inbound parsing (`GetQuotedMessages()`), outbound auto-quote (`Reply()`), and quote-by-message-id (`Quote()`); see [`core/samples/Quoting`](https://github.com/microsoft/teams-sdk/tree/main/core/samples/Quoting) |

Author: Fixed. Stripped all language-specific API references from the Premier table (TS-style addMention(...) / withRecipient(...) and C#-style GetQuotedMessages() / Reply() / Quote()). Replaced with plain-English descriptions. Wire-format invoke names like mention, dialog.open, and task/fetch stayed since they are activity-schema names rather than language APIs.

> | Quoted replies | Inbound parsing (`GetQuotedMessages()`), outbound auto-quote (`Reply()`), and quote-by-message-id (`Quote()`); see [`core/samples/Quoting`](https://github.com/microsoft/teams-sdk/tree/main/core/samples/Quoting) |

Author: Fixed. The sample lives in microsoft/teams.net (the .NET SDK repo), not microsoft/teams-sdk (the docs repo). A later review iteration removed the inline reference altogether, so the link no longer appears in the table.

| Meeting events | Start / end / participant join / leave |
| AI affordances | "Generated by AI" label, feedback loop, citation rendering |
| SSO / silent token exchange | Sign-in token exchange invokes |
| Channel events | Channel created / renamed / deleted, team member changes |
| File consent, read receipts, suggested actions, O365 connector card actions | Additional Teams-specific invokes |

> Rule of thumb: if your bot uses **most** of the Premier set, the Teams SDK is the right home; handlers and types are first-class. If it uses **few or none**, the M365 Agents SDK is sufficient.

## Bot Framework migration

If you're migrating from the **Bot Framework SDK** (the `Microsoft.Bot.*` packages), both SDKs offer a path. Pick based on whether you want to **modernize end-to-end** or **host legacy code unchanged**.

| | Migrate to M365 Agents SDK | Host legacy in Teams SDK |
|---|---|---|
| **What changes** | Package + namespace rename, `Program.cs` modernization, drop deprecated services | Add the compat package, register the adapter; existing handler unchanged |
| **Effort** | Medium (modernization scope, not a one-line swap) | Minimal (install + a few lines of registration) |

> | **When to pick** | You want the modern SDK as your end state; you may need cross-channel reach later | You want legacy code running unchanged while you migrate incrementally (or never) |

Reviewer 2: using _modern_ for AgentsSDK, and _legacy_ for TeamsSDK makes the impression the TeamsSDK is not modern.

Author: Reframed. Both column descriptions in the Bot Framework migration table now talk about technical fit rather than modernity. The Teams SDK column reads 'You want existing BotBuilder code running unchanged while you rewrite handlers piece by piece (or not at all)' instead of the 'legacy code' phrasing.

---
sidebar_class_name: 'sidebar-hidden'
summary: Pick the right SDK for your Teams agent. Compares the Microsoft 365 Agents SDK and the Microsoft Teams SDK by Teams depth, channel reach, and migration story.
---

# Pick the right SDK for your Teams agent

Microsoft offers two supported, actively-developed SDKs that can build a bot or agent for Microsoft Teams:

> - **[Microsoft Teams SDK](https://github.com/microsoft/teams-sdk)**: the SDK these docs cover, a Teams-first application framework

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[Microsoft Teams SDK](https://github.com/microsoft/teams-sdk)**: the SDK these docs cover, a framework for surfacing agents as first-class collaborators within Teams
```

| | Migrate to M365 Agents SDK | Host legacy in Teams SDK |
|---|---|---|
| **What changes** | Package + namespace rename, `Program.cs` modernization, drop deprecated services | Add the compat package, register the adapter; existing handler unchanged |
| **Effort** | Medium (modernization scope, not a one-line swap) | Minimal (install + a few lines of registration) |
| **When to pick** | You want primitives preserved across a clean SDK switch; you may need cross-channel reach later | You want existing BotBuilder code running unchanged while you rewrite handlers piece by piece (or not at all) |

## Next steps

- **Sticking with Teams SDK?** Continue to [Get started](/get-started/quickstart-register) or the [TypeScript](/typescript/getting-started) / [C#](/csharp/getting-started) / [Python](/python/getting-started) guides.
- **Need cross-channel reach?** Head to the [Microsoft 365 Agents SDK docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/agents-sdk/).
- **Already using Bot Framework or TeamsFx?** See [Bot Framework migration](#bot-framework-migration) above; both SDKs offer migration paths.

:::tip Build for Teams *and* M365 Copilot at once

> Both SDKs reach Microsoft 365 Copilot through the same Teams client surface. Once your bot works in Teams, [enable it in M365 Copilot](./enabling-in-copilot) with a single CLI command. No code change required.

Reviewer 3: (Single CLI command, but requires a republish / reload of the app)

Author: @copilot address the comment ^
